# Professional Ethics

There are many opportunities in the society of the Entire History of You for professionals to engage in unethical behavior. In the oppening scene, Liam is being appraised by superiors at his law firm, and they explain that an area of opportunity for the firm is cases where people retroactively sue their parents for lack of attention as a child, leading to lack of confidence, leading to lower earnings. Their memories stored in the grain device are used as evidence. Liam asks "the firm's ok with that ethically and morally?", and his superiors just stare at him as if that's a rediculous question.Their unwillingness to even discuss questions related to ethics enables a workplace and society that tollerates unethical behavior.

Looking at the developers of the grain device, there are many opportunities for them to practice unethical behavior. According to the ACM code of ethics, computing professionals are supposed to use their skill to benefit society, avoid harming others, be honest and trustworthy, respect privacy, and perform work only in areas of competence, among other things. While it is unknown whether they are violating any of these principles, the opportunity for them to do so is great. It seems that while the grain does benefit society in some ways, it harms it in others, and it is unknown the extent to which the developers discuss this, and inform the public of the risks of this technology. With the amout of personal data the grain is able to collect, developers have the ability to abuse people's privacy. In addition, it is unknown how competent the developers are, and whether they are qualified to produce such a complicated technology that could be such a huge safety risk to people who use it.

[Home](https://saahilclaypool.github.io/blackmirror/)